# FMScout

This project was the first moment that I felt like after learning different skills and building my confidence, it was time to build an app of use that displayed my skills and could be developed more and more as an ongoing project. I wanted to build something that a) was useful to me, b) I would have fun building and c) could integrate the skills that I had learnt.

Football manager is my favourite game to play and as a backend developer, I saw it as the perfect focus for my first project. The game heavily relies upon the use of data in order to create gameplay for the user, but involves a lot of guessing and 'feeling'. I wanted to find a way of removing this and manipulating the data in my own way in order to optimise my performance in the game.

Context and aims of the project.

Football manager is a game where players are asked to replicate the role of a real-life manager of a professional football team. Players amongst other roles such as recruiting staff, managing tactical selection and renewing contracts, assemble a squad of players that will win the most games possible. In order to do this, players are assigned around 30 attributes in order to assess their ability to perform, such as 'Strength', 'Agility', 'Decisions', 'Finishing' or 'Passing'. These attributes are given a number from 1 to 20; 1 is the worst, 20 is the best. Therefore, the higher the number for a player's attributes, the better they are at the game.

The other main reason why this is important is because player will often perfrom in different positions on the football pitch, and perform in different tactical roles when in that position; such as a 'Central defender (Defend)' is responsible for defensive positioning and stopping goals from being conceded, where as a 'Attacking midfielder (Attack)' is responsible for creating and scoring goal-scoring opportunities. Each of these roles require different attributes in order to be effective in that role, so therefore some players will be better suited to some roles more than others. For example, a 'Central defender (Defend)' will need strong 'Aggression', 'Heading' and 'Positioning' attributes, whereas an 'Attacking midfielder (Attack)' will need strong 'Passing', 'Vision' and 'Anticipation' attributes. What this therefore means is that a player's suitability for a role can be calculated and determined as a matter of fact. However, the game does not do this for you, and will display a player's attributes and highlight which attributes they need for the selected role, but will leave the efficacy of their attributes for that role down to your judgement as a player. I therefore wanted to build a program that took away the guessing and produced scores and rankings for different players based on their suitability for tactical roles that were in question.

Extracting data and building dataframes.

What I needed to do first was find a way of extracting data from the game, and exporting it in a format that could then be read by the program. Luckily FM allows you to do this by selecting a list of players, then pressing 'CTRL + P' on your keyboard. This then creates an HTML file with all of the extracted player data in a table, saved to a place in one's local computer files of their choice.

I then needed to find a way of taking this data and making my program read it in an organised way. Luckily the 'pandas' dataframe extension allows one to do this in python. This is an extension that takes an HMTL table file, and allows the table to be read as dictionary values in pyton. This is an incredibly useful tool as the table columns of infomation on the players that had been selected, could now be read as dictionary keys; e.g. 'Agg' is the table column for a player's aggression attribute. This then meant that for each player role that I wanted to be analysed, I could manipulate the data of that table column, perform concatenation if necessary, and then display that data in a new table as output.

Creating the code.

Now that I had a program that could take the exported data, read it and then manipulate it, I needed to write the code that manipulates and concatenates the data to create output. This was maybe the longest process, as it required for me to research and create the code that created a manipulated average of the attributes required for each player role. A function for each calculation would be created where the manipulted average would be calculated, and then this score would be added as a table column in addition to other important details about the player, the table would be sorted descending by the player role score, saved as a file on the local storage, and then opened in the default web-browser.

Once this was formatted in the correct way and tests were repeated to ensure that the correct output was being created, and exported in the desired way, then it was simply a case of creating different functions for the 50+ player roles in the game.

Writing the script.

The next lengthy task was writing some program script that would ask the user to type in the name of the role that they would want analysing, take the input and then use this to select one of the functions that I'd created, and then perform the function. The difficulty with this was that there are so many ways that a user could type the name of a player role; including, abbreviations, caps, hyphens and whole words. Therefore, I was determined to make a program that was user friendly, and that was able to recognise any of these inputs. Therefore, I had to make sure that string manipulation happened to the input, such as converting the text into lower case and removing spaces, and manually typing all of the possible names for each player role. This wa made even more difficult by not being able to indent the code for each name that I was typing; meaning that all of the input examples are stored on one line of code.

Testing and finishing touches.

I then had to link the code to a batch file in order for it to run as a program. This was straightforward. Then it was a case of repeatedly testing to program to check for bugs. I was thankful I did this, as there were many bugs that were revealed and allowed me to improve my code. Once I felt confident about this, I then created an icon for the program to make it feel more finished from a UI point of view.
